\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename tdbc.info
@settitle TDBC
@setchapternewpage off
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Tcl
@direntry
* TDBC: (tdbc).                 Tcl Database Connectivity.
@end direntry

@include version.texi

@node Top
@top TDBC
This manual (@value{UPDATED}) is for TDBC (version @value{VERSION}).

@menu
* tdbc::		Tcl Database Connectivity
* Tdbc_Init::		C procedures to facilitate writing TDBC drivers
* tdbc connection::	Connection objects for drivers
* tdbc mapSqlState::	Map SQLSTATE to error class
* tdbc resultset::	TDBC result set object
* tdbc statement::	TDBC statement object
* tdbc tokenize::	TDBC SQL tokenizer
* tdbc mysql::		TDBC-MYSQL bridge
* tdbc odbc::		TDBC-ODBC bridge
* tdbc postgres::	TDBC-POSTGRES bridge
* tdbc sqlite3::	TDBC driver for the SQLite3 database manager

@end menu

@node tdbc

Tcl Database Connectivity (TDBC) is a common interface for Tcl programs to
access SQL databases.

@node Tdbc_Init

The TDBC library provides several C procedures that simplify writing a TDBC
driver.

@node tdbc connection

Every database driver for TDBC (Tcl DataBase Connectivity) implements a
connection object  that  represents a connection to a database.

@node tdbc mapSqlState

The tdbc::mapSqlState command accepts a string that is expected to be a five-
character 'SQL state' as returned from a SQL database when an error occurs.

@node tdbc resultset

Every database driver for TDBC (Tcl DataBase Connectivity) implements a
result set object that represents a the results returned from executing SQL
statement in a database.

@node tdbc statement

Every database driver for TDBC (Tcl DataBase Connectivity) implements a
statement object that represents a SQL statement in a database.

@node tdbc tokenize

As a convenience to database drivers, Tcl Database Connectivity (TDBC)
provides a command to break SQL code apart into tokens so that bound
variables can readily be identified and substituted.

@node tdbc mysql

The tdbc::mysql driver provides a database interface that conforms to Tcl
DataBase Connectivity (TDBC) and allows a Tcl script to connect to a MySQL
database.

@node tdbc odbc

The tdbc::odbc driver provides a database interface that conforms to Tcl
DataBase Connectivity (TDBC) and allows a Tcl script to connect to any SQL
database presenting an ODBC interface.

@node tdbc postgres

The tdbc::postgres driver provides a database interface that conforms to Tcl
DataBase Connectivity (TDBC) and allows a Tcl script to connect to a Postgres
database.

@node tdbc sqlite3

The tdbc::sqlite3  driver provides a database interface that conforms to Tcl
DataBase Connectivity (TDBC) and allows a Tcl script to connect to a SQLite3
database.

@bye
